From nothing, Yahvo created a seed. Amidst nothing, the seed lived and grew until a single root emerged from the seed. The light of Yahvo shone on the seed, causing it to grow, but only slightly. Yahvo was unhappy with what he saw and so he waited. Eventually, another root appeared, and another, and another, and soon there were millions of roots extending out from the seed, stretching through all time and space eventually pleasing Yahvo with their color and diversity. Yahvo smiled at what he saw and created a pool of white water for the roots so that they might be nourished and grow stronger and bigger. He created black soil for the roots that they might be fed by its nutrients and fill the darkness further with their shapes. He Himself provided light for the seeds.

As time passed, the roots spread themselves across the vastness, growing larger and fuller every day, joining with one another, intertwining, and extending in every direction, reaching all places. Though there were endless roots, each was different than the other, there was one in particular that Yahvo watched closely. It was this particular root that was the first to change its direction and begin to sprout upward, towards Yahvo himself. It continued to stretch itself toward the heavens before splotting itself apart into an endless amount of smaller roots, each one spreading away from the other. Yahvo was pleased with the new shape forming and as He focused His attention upon the shape, the other roots became distant, far away, and seemingly forgotten.

Black leaves began to emerge from the upper roots and one particular section became thicker and more robust. Yahvo created a special light for the shame, and after time the leaves that had been black, became green. The thick section of the root formed a thick wooden skin while bright fruits appeared between the green leaves. Yahvo enjoyed the new shape and He called it 'ter' (tree). But, in time, the tree bored Him. It was then He added a thick ground beneath the tree and filled it with blades of tall yellow grasses. Days later, He noticed a small worm walking along the leaf, eating the green substance. The laughter of Yahvo filled the expanse of Heaven and soon there were many worms, filling up the tree, eating the fruits and leaves for nourishment.

The worms grew in size and soon birds came to eat the worms. Yahvo enjoyed the birds and created blue skies for them to live in and prosper. Though Yahvo tried to speak with the worms and the birds, they could not understand or relate to Him. So, He became upset with all that had been created and turned away from it and left to another place.

Much time passed before Yahvo went to look at the tree again. When He did, He found that nothing had changed. However, as He watched the leaves bask in the light, He noticed a man standing below the tree. The man was feeding the birds and playing with the animals of the field. The man looked at Yahvo and spoke. "I am lonely" the man said. "No one understands me when I speak and no one listens when I talk." And Yahvo laughed and cried and smiled and wept.

And soon woman existed with man. Together the man and woman lived together often conversing with Yahvo on all subjects and matter. He taught them of good, and of the way He desired for them to live. And they had no knowledge of evil.

One particular day Yahvo came to the tree with another handsome looking man. The man was called Jakooth by Yahvo and wished for the man and woman to talk with Jakooth for a while, so that they could understand 'his' wishes for them. And so, Jakooth taught the man and woman of evil... and when he left their tree, they had the knowledge of good and evil. They knew what both Yahvo and Jakooth desired of them and Yahvo was pleased they had gained this knowledge.

And so from that moment on, the man and woman and their descendants had to choose whether or not to follow those things that Yahvo had taught them or to follow those things that Jakooth had taught them.