Ja'kreen - Ja'kreen took the throne in the year 555 at the age of 80. By the time of his coronation, he had already reached the rank of Guild Master in the Guild of Stone Masons. 

It was Ja'kreen who first publicly stated plans to re-build the King's Arch[^1]. In 598, headed by Guild Master Koris of the Guild of Stone Masons, design of the Arch was begun. In 600 construction started and in 625[^2] the Arch was completed. It was a day of great celebration, as it marked their first century on Earth and, because of the prophecies, allowed for the passage of the Great King. As a result from the time of its completion onward, all Kings sailed through the Arch as part of their coronation ceremony.

As construction of the Arch was underway, Ja'kreen planned for construction of the Temple of the Great King. Specifications for the building were recorded in ancient prophecies[^3] and Ja'kreen made sure that each was followed through to the last span. Construction was finished in 643. 

It should be noted that at the time of construction there were apparently quite a few people who questioned the dimensions of the building, calling them "rather odd" and "exorbitant". However, Ja'kreen would hear nothing of their complaints and, in fact, managed to anger quite a few of those who worked on the Temple during its construction[^4]. Once the temple was complete, Ja'kreen ordered the transfer of the gold throne from the Temple that Ri'neref had built to the new Temple of the Great King.

In 654, Ja'kreen's wife gave birth to a son. Unfortunately, the boy only lived for ten years before dying of a rare disease[^5]. It was not 10 years after the death of the boy that Ja'kreen's wife passed away, also at a young age. The tragedies seemed to have had a devastating affect on Ja'kreen and in his later years he was known to be easily angered and extremely harsh. 

He remarried in 700 and his second wife gave birth to a son 17 years later, followed by two daughters. Records speak of various accusations of abuse toward his children though nothing was ever proven. Regardless of whether or not there was abuse, it seems he was never able to get over the death of his son and first wife. As one of the prophetesses who advised him wrote in her journals, "He never seemed to really love or appreciate any of them..." though he did leave the throne to the oldest of them.

It was Ja'kreen who encouraged further private construction for The Island in 775, including the J'Taeri District. He named the high-class district after his first son who had died 111 years earlier.

Ja'kreen died of natural consequences in 812 at the age of 337. It was often said that Ja'kreen died a very sad and unsatisfied man. 



[^1]: The King's Arch was modeled after a similar design on Garternay. It was prophesied that the Great King would be "welcomed" by the Arch and so its construction was obviously seen as very important 
[^2]: Because D'ni numbers are base 25, the year 625 was very significant
[^3]: Most were taken from the Regeltavok of Oorpah
[^4]: As recorded in Guild of Stone Masons' records
[^5]: It is not known what the disease was. Records only indicate extremely high temperatures and extremely sore and brittle bones