Lanaren - Lanaren took the throne in 5701 at the age of 98. Lanaren had not been close to his father and, as a result, was not much like him. It was rumored that it was because of Lanaren that Adesh's own advisor had killed Adesh; he knew Lanaren would give the people what they wanted. 

Lanaren immediately denounced the actions of his father in killing Gish and informed the public of the existence of the Relyimah, their involvement in the death of Gish and promised to rid them from all government activities. The announcement was a shock to the public and a huge blow to those who had served the Relyimah. Most ended up living in hidden Private Ages, while a few were murdered, after their years of service to the government[^1]. 

The loss of the Relyimah again gave the factions hope that they would be able to carry out their "demonstrations" again. However, Lanaren also promised to rid outsider involvement, meaning the factions had no need for such acts. It's believed that the promise was not one that Lanaren necessarily meant to keep, but instead one he intended to pretend he was trying to meet to keep the factions happy. 

He also believed whole-heartedly in the plan to build a tunnel to The Island and was able to push it through in 5714, as Me'emen had not been able to. While Stone Tooth was busy digging, Lanaren promised that its next task would be to continue expansion by the Ashem'en District with eventual plans to create new residential and cultural districts. 

Lanaren also ordered the Major Guilds to begin work on replacing all Ages that required outsider involvement. He demanded Ages that would carry out the same tasks but without outside involvement. Most Guild Masters knew the plan would take years and years, and though they did not agree with it, agreed to attempt it[^2]. 

In 5721 new techniques were developed to incorporate structural reinforcement in extrusion based construction, some that would aid construction of the districts Lanaren had promised. 

In 5734, the tunnel connecting The Island with the city proper was canceled. Stone Tooth had been working on it for over twenty years but the Guild Masters who were already required by Lanaren to replace a huge number of Ages, were not about to connect their homes on The Island with the city proper[^3]. Lanaren agreed, as there were further concerns that such construction could affect the lake level or even the algae within the lake[^4]. 

Instead Stone Tooth was ordered to begin clearing out more space next to the Ashem'en District. 

In 5856 construction was begun on the new Lanaren District. Stone Tooth was ordered to begin further exploration of the cavern by way of new tunnels. 

In 5902, the Guilds announced four new Ages[^5] to replace some of those being used by outsiders. The announcement meant little, except to have the factions believe that eventually outside involvement would be finished. 

5903 marked the first inhabitants of the Lanaren District, mostly manual laborers who worked in the adjoining Ahsem'en. 

The Relyimah were officially finished with their work in 5986. The announcement was fairly quiet, as most of their work had ceased long before that. 

In 5999, Lanaren passed away at very old age of 396. He left the throne to his fifth, and youngest, son. 



[^1]: From "Revealing the Unseen" written by Besharen in 5999 
[^2]: From the private journals of Grand Master Keman of the Guild of Legislators
[^3]: From "The Lost Tunnel" written by Lashem in 6034
[^4]: The environmental damage claimed by Lanaren and D'ni environmentalists, was never proven. Most agree it was an easy way out for Lanaren who then did not have to admit he was bullied by the Grand Masters who lived on The Island
[^5]: Three of the Ages were Food Ages while the fourth was meant to replace one of the major manufacturing Ages. In reality, none of them were ever used to the extent the Ages they were replacing had been used